
I'm a capitalist. I am the CEO of a corporation and I believe in the system
that got our country where it is. The system works because everyone has a
voice and gets to use it, but this is becoming less and less a reality for
motivated americans who come from a world of less then

I don't believe that the solutions for what ails the country are going to be 
coming from the top of our society. Over achievers have an inherant bias 
against the poor. I'm from broke as fuck and I'm also an engineer so i've seen
this bias up close and personal for coming up on 13 years.

let's talk for a second about how Banks profit from the poor. it's not
uncommon to be charged $3 to withdraw money. It costs banks maybe 10¢ to
process the transaction (you can still hear the 28.8k modems spinning up on
some ATMs). If you bounce a check it's a $30 fee, here again it probably costs
them 20¢ cents to process and insufficient funds request.

banks profit by justifying their fees on moral grounds. when I bounce a check
I feel like shit. our financial institutions see this as an opportunity to
profit and are quick to pile on the shame. and since they've 
<a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/16/business/online-banking-keeps-customers-on-hook-for-fees.html">locked</a>
us into our accounts they are not all that worried about our negative opinion of them.

banks are insular organizations. the only opinion that matters are those of
other bankers. the Competition is between them, and it's for profit not for
who can deliver the most service for the least amount of money.

Americans are N (it's at least 400) times more efficient then they were in
1980 yet have less time for their own projects and interests. fuck the
national endowment for the arts. I don't need a grant to make art, I need
time.

These are uncomfortable truths but not for us. we are on the other side of
this equation. we're saying something outside the seven deadly sins. you may
be able to manipulate human beings for profit. but to do so is to ignore the
larger truth that we are motivated more by a need to care for each other then
to belong or win.

It's not just the financial system that's been corrupted by the drive for
personal status. Advertising (the engine that currently powers the internet)
you can see pretty quickly that it's, the highest educated, richest and most
powerful among us who control what less educated, financial stable and
disconnected people do. it's a system built for abuse, and manipulation. 

Solutions are easy. the problem is there not viewed as directly profitable to
those who are in power. What about a 4 day work week. why can't we have one
day back to ourselves. we've earned the right to more freedom. I don't want
the extra day to be lazy. i want that time to be creative. 

what about making it illegal to profit from people's hardships. Banks can
charge me for the cost of my being broke, but to profit from it makes them
look like the mob. It's called usury. an old word suddenly feeling very
relevant.

Scott Fryxell
October 2011


1980 1% had 12% of wealth %40 of wealth today. 